So far, we've looked into how
the Python syntax is
used for variables,
expressions, and defining
and using functions.
There's a lot more
syntax to come.
But before we dive into that,
let's talk a bit about
a different side of
programming, Style.
On the whole, having
good or bad style
when you write code
doesn't make much
difference between
a script succeeding or crashing,
but it can make a
big difference for
the people who use it
and contribute to it.
Poor programming style can make
life difficult for
the IT specialists or
system administrators
who have to read
the script after it's written
or make changes to it.
So it works with a new system.
Bad style can even give
the scripts author a headache
if it's been awhile
since they've wrote it.
Imagine having to rewrite
your own code because it's
too messy to understand.
On the flip side,
good style can make
a script look almost like
natural human language.
It can make the
scripts intent and
construction immediately
clear to the reader.
Goods style makes life
easier for people
who have to maintain
the code and helps them
understand what it does
and how it does it.
It can also reduce
errors since it makes
updating the code
easier and more straightforward
and most importantly good style
makes you look cool, right?
So we agree, our code
should be stylish.
But what makes the style of
a piece of code good or bad?
Although there are no
hard and fast rules that
apply to every programming
language and situation,
keeping a few principles
in mind will go
a long way to creating
good well styled code.
First off, you want your code to
be self-documenting as possible.
Self-documenting code is
written in a way that's
readable and doesn't
conceal its intent.
This principle can be applied to
all aspects of writing code from
picking your variable names to
writing clear
concise expressions.
Take this code
snippet for example.
It's hard to
determine the purpose
of this code by
just looking at it.
The names of the variables
don't give the reader
much information and although you
can likely work out the
result of the calculation,
there are no clues to what
that result might be used for.
In programming lingo, when we
re-write code to be
more self-documenting,
we call this process refactoring.
So how would it look if
we refactored this code?
With this refactored code,
the intent should
now be more clear.
The names of the variables and
the function reflect
their purpose,
which helps the reader understand
the code more quickly.
You should always aim for
your code to be self-documenting.
But even then, sometimes
you may need to use
a particularly tricky bit
of code in your script.
When good naming and
clean organization can't
make the code clear,
you can add a bit of
explanatory texts to the code.
You do this by adding
what we call a comment.
In Python, comments are
indicated by the hash character.
When your computer
sees a hash character
and understands that
it should ignore
everything that comes after
that character on that line.
Check out how this looks.
Using comments, lets you explain
why a function does
something a certain way.
It also allows you to leave
notes to your future self or
other programmers
to remind you of
what needs to be
improved and why.
Obviously, it's much easier
to read your own code
than someone else's.
But in my job, I work on code
that was written by lots of
different people and everybody
designs things a
little differently.
This is why it's so important to
comment and document
your code well.
More often than not,
your code will eventually be
used by someone other than you.
So be a good neighbor.
Use the style guide to structure
your code in a way
that's readable by
others or by you
in six months when
you've forgotten why you wrote
that code in the first place.
In upcoming exercises
in this course,
we'll use comments to let you
know what you need
to do with the code.
You can always write as many
extra comments as you need.
Coming up, a quiz to consolidate
your newly acquired
knowledge about functions.
Don't worry. You've got this.